Reference 13
PMID: 34265844
Title: Highly accurate protein structure prediction with AlphaFold.
Authors: Jumper J; Evans R; Pritzel A; Green T; Figurnov M; Ronneberger O; Tunyasuvunakool K; Bates R; et al.
Year: 2021
Journal: Nature
DOI: 10.1038/s41586-021-03819-2
URL: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34265844/
Draft use: AlphaFold residue confidence/protein structure context

Abstract:
Proteins are essential to life, and understanding their structure can facilitate a mechanistic
understanding of their function. Through an enormous experimental effort1-4, the structures of
around 100,000 unique proteins have been determined5, but this represents a small fraction of the
billions of known protein sequences6,7. Structural coverage is bottlenecked by the months to years
of painstaking effort required to determine a single protein structure. Accurate computational
approaches are needed to address this gap and to enable large-scale structural bioinformatics.
Predicting the three-dimensional structure that a protein will adopt based solely on its amino acid
sequence-the structure prediction component of the 'protein folding problem'8-has been an important
open research problem for more than 50 years9. Despite recent progress10-14, existing methods fall
far short of atomic accuracy, especially when no homologous structure is available. Here we provide
the first computational method that can regularly predict protein structures with atomic accuracy
even in cases in which no similar structure is known. We validated an entirely redesigned version of
our neural network-based model, AlphaFold, in the challenging 14th Critical Assessment of protein
Structure Prediction (CASP14)15, demonstrating accuracy competitive with experimental structures in
a majority of cases and greatly outperforming other methods. Underpinning the latest version of
AlphaFold is a novel machine learning approach that incorporates physical and biological knowledge
about protein structure, leveraging multi-sequence alignments, into the design of the deep learning
algorithm.
