Reference 16
PMID: 34930020
Title: Arrhythmia Variant Associations and Reclassifications in the eMERGE-III Sequencing Study.
Authors: Glazer AM; Davogustto G; Shaffer CM; Vanoye CG; Desai RR; Farber-Eger EH; Dikilitas O; Shang N; et al.
Year: 2022
Journal: Circulation
DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.121.055562
URL: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34930020/
Draft use: eMERGE-III arrhythmia variant source and 21,846-participant cohort

Abstract:
BACKGROUND: Sequencing Mendelian arrhythmia genes in individuals without an indication for
arrhythmia genetic testing can identify carriers of pathogenic or likely pathogenic (P/LP) variants.
However, the extent to which these variants are associated with clinically meaningful phenotypes
before or after return of variant results is unclear. In addition, the majority of discovered
variants are currently classified as variants of uncertain significance, limiting clinical
actionability. METHODS: The eMERGE-III study (Electronic Medical Records and Genomics Phase III) is
a multicenter prospective cohort that included 21 846 participants without previous indication for
cardiac genetic testing. Participants were sequenced for 109 Mendelian disease genes, including 10
linked to arrhythmia syndromes. Variant carriers were assessed with electronic health record-derived
phenotypes and follow-up clinical examination. Selected variants of uncertain significance (n=50)
were characterized in vitro with automated electrophysiology experiments in HEK293 cells. RESULTS:
As previously reported, 3.0% of participants had P/LP variants in the 109 genes. Herein, we report
120 participants (0.6%) with P/LP arrhythmia variants. Compared with noncarriers, arrhythmia P/LP
carriers had a significantly higher burden of arrhythmia phenotypes in their electronic health
records. Fifty-four participants had variant results returned. Nineteen of these 54 participants had
inherited arrhythmia syndrome diagnoses (primarily long-QT syndrome), and 12 of these 19 diagnoses
were made only after variant results were returned (0.05%). After in vitro functional evaluation of
50 variants of uncertain significance, we reclassified 11 variants: 3 to likely benign and 8 to
P/LP. CONCLUSIONS: Genome sequencing in a large population without indication for arrhythmia genetic
testing identified phenotype-positive carriers of variants in congenital arrhythmia syndrome disease
genes. As the genomes of large numbers of people are sequenced, the disease risk from rare variants
in arrhythmia genes can be assessed by integrating genomic screening, electronic health record
phenotypes, and in vitro functional studies. REGISTRATION: URL: https://www. CLINICALTRIALS: gov;
Unique identifier; NCT03394859.
