Reference 7
PMID: 33046849
Title: Disease-specific variant pathogenicity prediction significantly improves variant interpretation in inherited cardiac conditions.
Authors: Zhang X; Walsh R; Whiffin N; Buchan R; Midwinter W; Wilk A; Govind R; Li N; et al.
Year: 2021
Journal: Genetics in medicine : official journal of the American College of Medical Genetics
DOI: 10.1038/s41436-020-00972-3
URL: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33046849/
Draft use: CardioBoost comparator and deferral-threshold framing

Abstract:
PURPOSE: Accurate discrimination of benign and pathogenic rare variation remains a priority for
clinical genome interpretation. State-of-the-art machine learning variant prioritization tools are
imprecise and ignore important parameters defining gene-disease relationships, e.g., distinct
consequences of gain-of-function versus loss-of-function variants. We hypothesized that
incorporating disease-specific information would improve tool performance. METHODS: We developed a
disease-specific variant classifier, CardioBoost, that estimates the probability of pathogenicity
for rare missense variants in inherited cardiomyopathies and arrhythmias. We assessed CardioBoost's
ability to discriminate known pathogenic from benign variants, prioritize disease-associated
variants, and stratify patient outcomes. RESULTS: CardioBoost has high global discrimination
accuracy (precision recall area under the curve [AUC] 0.91 for cardiomyopathies; 0.96 for
arrhythmias), outperforming existing tools (4-24% improvement). CardioBoost obtains excellent
accuracy (cardiomyopathies 90.2%; arrhythmias 91.9%) for variants classified with >90% confidence,
and increases the proportion of variants classified with high confidence more than twofold compared
with existing tools. Variants classified as disease-causing are associated with both disease status
and clinical severity, including a 21% increased risk (95% confidence interval [CI] 11-29%) of
severe adverse outcomes by age 60 in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. CONCLUSIONS: A
disease-specific variant classifier outperforms state-of-the-art genome-wide tools for rare missense
variants in inherited cardiac conditions ( https://www.cardiodb.org/cardioboost/ ), highlighting
broad opportunities for improved pathogenicity prediction through disease specificity.
